Adding Squash Documentation (#5883)
Codecademy/docs: content/git/concepts/squash/squash.md

---
Title: 'Squash'
Description: 'Squashing in Git merges multiple commits into a single one, helping streamline and clarify the commit history'
Subjects:
  - 'Bash/Shell'
  - 'Developer Tools'
Tags:
  - 'Git'
  - 'Version Control'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-the-command-line'
  - 'learn-git'
---

> Merging a series of smaller commits into a single, cohesive one can significantly clean up your project’s commit history. This practice, commonly known as "squashing", is particularly helpful when previous commits are small tweaks or corrections that clutter the commit history.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Merging a series of smaller commits into a single, cohesive one can significantly clean up your project’s commit history. This practice, commonly known as "squashing", is particularly helpful when previous commits contain minor changes that clutter the commit history.
```
Made the sentence a little grammatically correct.

Though Git doesn’t offer a straightforward `squash` command, you can achieve this functionality through an interactive rebase. Below, we explore how you can squash your commits for a tidier project history.

## Example

> Imagine you’ve been working on a feature branch, generating several incremental commits. Before integrating these changes into the main branch, you decide it’s best to `squash` your commits to maintain a clean history.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Imagine  working on a feature branch, generating several incremental commits. Before integrating these changes into the main branch,  it’s best to `squash` your commits to maintain a clean history.
```
Avoid using first and second-person pronouns, i.e. "I", "we", and "you", as much as possible.

> Your current commit log might look something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current commit log might look something like this:
```
Avoud using words like 'you', 'your'.

```shell
12345678 Initial commit

> 23456789 Added Santa`s new address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
23456789 Added Santa's new address
```
Please replace the curly apostrophe in 'Santa`s' with the standard ('Santa's').

87654321 Corrected grammar in the address
98765544 Updated house number for Santa
```

> These last three commits relate to updates and corrections to the same component, and combining them will create a more meaningful history.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These last three commits relate to updates and corrections to the same component, and quashing them into a single commit will make the commit history more concise and meaningful.
```
Grammatically made the sentence more concise.

### Interactive Rebase: The path to squashing
To start squashing, initiate an interactive rebase for the last three commits:

```shell
git rebase -i HEAD~3
```
Executing the command will launch an editor displaying something similar to this:

```shell

> pick 23456789 Added Santa`s new address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pick 23456789 Added Santa's new address
```
Made some grammatical adjustments.

pick 87654321 Corrected grammar in the address
pick 98765544 Updated house number for Santa

# Rebase
#
# Commands:
#  p, pick = use commit
#  r, reword = use commit, but edit the commit message
#  e, edit = use commit, but stop for amending
#  s, squash = use commit, but meld into previous commit
#  f, fixup = like "squash", but discard this commit's log message
#  x, exec = run command (the rest of the line) using shell
#
# These lines can be re-ordered; they are executed from top to bottom.
#
# If you remove a line here THAT COMMIT WILL BE LOST.
#
# However, if you remove everything, the rebase will be aborted.
#
# Note that empty commits are commented out
```
The goal here is to transform each `pick` command into a `squash` (or simply `s`), thereby combining them into one commit:

```shell
pick 23456789 Added Santa`s new address
squash 87654321 Corrected grammar in the address
squash 98765544 Updated house number for Santa
```

> After saving and closing the editor, `Git` will prompt you to draft a new commit message:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After saving and closing the editor, `Git` will prompt you to draft a new commit message:
```
Avoid using the first, second person pronouns.
